docs: update storage documentation (#392)
status-im/ift-docs: docs/storage/get-started/run-logos-storage-node.md

    ```

    - This produces a `.lgx` package in `./storage-lgx/`.

    {% hint style="info" %}

    Use the `#lgx-portable` output: it declares the standard platform variant (e.g. `linux-amd64`) that the release build of `lgpm` accepts. The plain `#lgx` output produces a `-dev` variant that only a source-built `lgpm` can install.

    {% endhint %}

    {% hint style="info" %}

    The initial Nix build takes 15–20 minutes on first run. Subsequent builds use the Nix cache and complete in seconds.

    {% endhint %}
2.  Install the package into a local modules directory using `lgpm`. The package is a local build and is unsigned, so pass `--allow-unsigned`:

    ```sh
    mkdir -p modules
    lgpm --modules-dir ./modules --allow-unsigned install --file storage-lgx/*.lgx
    ```
3.  Confirm the module landed:

    ```sh
    lgpm --modules-dir ./modules list
    # storage_module appears in the listing
    ```

## Start the daemon and load the storage module

Run `logoscore` with the modules directory, then load and initialise the [storage module](https://docs.logos.co/get-started/glossary#storage-module) against the testnet config.

> Several module calls in this procedure are **asynchronous**: the call returns `"result":true` as soon as the command is accepted, and the real outcome arrives later as an event in the daemon log (`storageStart`, `storageUploadDone`, `storageDownloadDone`, `storageRemoveDone`). This is why the daemon is started with its output captured to `logs.txt`, and why the steps below check that file.

Reviewer: These async completion events (`storageStart`, `storageUploadDone`, `storageDownloadDone`, `storageRemoveDone`) are real, but dogfooding this end-to-end they are **not** written to `logs.txt`. `logoscore module-info storage_module` lists them as `type: "event"` (Qt signals) delivered to event subscribers such as the Storage UI, and the `logoscore call` client never subscribes to them — grepping `logs.txt` (and the `log-file` `storage.log`) for these names returns nothing. What the steps below actually do is wait a moment and re-query with `manifests`/`exists`, so the "why the steps below check that file" rationale is misleading.

```suggestion
Several module calls in this procedure are **asynchronous**: the call returns `"result":true` as soon as the command is accepted, and the real outcome is delivered later as an event (`storageStart`, `storageUploadDone`, `storageDownloadDone`, `storageRemoveDone`). These events are emitted to event subscribers (such as the Storage UI); the `logoscore call` client does not subscribe to them, so they do **not** appear in `logs.txt`. Each step below instead waits briefly and confirms the outcome with a follow-up query (for example `manifests` or `exists`).
```

(The same "in the (daemon) log" phrasing recurs on lines 144 and 209 — separate suggestions there.)

    ```sh
    mkdir -p "$(pwd)/storage-data"
    cat > config.json <<EOF
    {
      "data-dir": "$(pwd)/storage-data",
      "log-level": "DEBUG",
      "log-file": "$(pwd)/storage-data/storage.log",
      "nat": "none"
    }
    EOF
    ```

    - With `"nat": "none"` the node announces the machine's own IP as-is: it can download from the network but is not reachable from the internet from behind a router. To make it reachable, use `"nat": "upnp"` or `"nat": "extip:<your-public-IP>"` with the ports forwarded: see [Connectivity](../concepts/connectivity.md).

    - `config.json` includes the following fields:

    | Field       | Purpose                            |
    | ----------- | ---------------------------------- |
    | `data-dir`  | Storage repository path (absolute) |
    | `log-level` | Log verbosity                      |
    | `log-file`  | Node log destination (absolute)    |
    | `nat`       | Public IP advertisement mode — see [Connectivity](../concepts/connectivity.md) |

>     - Every omitted key keeps its default: the node joins the `logos.test` network preset (which provides the testnet bootstrap settings) and picks random ports.

Reviewer: Minor: only the TCP `listen-port` defaults to a random port (`0`). `disc-port` defaults to the fixed UDP port `8090` (per `init()`'s defaults and the [Connectivity](../concepts/connectivity.md#ports) page), not a random port — I confirmed the node bound discovery to `0.0.0.0:8090`.

```suggestion
    - Every omitted key keeps its default: the node joins the `logos.test` network preset (which provides the testnet bootstrap settings), binds discovery to the default UDP port `8090`, and picks a random TCP `listen-port`.
```

    - For a public, reachable node, set fixed `listen-port` (TCP) and `disc-port` (UDP) values and a `nat` mode that announces your address: see [Connectivity](../concepts/connectivity.md).

6.  Initialise the storage module with the testnet configuration. `init` is synchronous and returns `true` on success (the `@config.json` syntax loads the file's contents as the argument):

    ```sh
    logoscore call storage_module init @config.json
    ```

> 7.  Start the node. `start` is asynchronous: the return value only confirms the command was accepted; the real outcome is the `storageStart` event in the daemon log:

Reviewer: Same issue as line 82: the completion `storageStart` event is a Qt signal delivered to event subscribers, not a line written to the daemon log. This step actually confirms the node came up via the `debug` call in step 8.

```suggestion
7.  Start the node. `start` is asynchronous: the return value only confirms the command was accepted; completion is signalled later by the `storageStart` event (delivered to event subscribers, not written to `logs.txt`):
```

    ```sh
    logoscore call storage_module uploadUrl "$(pwd)/logs.txt" 65536
    ```

    {% hint style="info" %}

    The default chunk size is 65536.

    {% endhint %}
2.  Extract the content ID (CID) from the first `manifests` entry:

    ```sh
    # Wait a second for the upload to complete first
    logoscore call storage_module manifests \
       | jq -er '.result.value[0].cid' > cid.txt
    ```
3.  Download the file back from local storage with `downloadToUrl`. It takes the CID, an **absolute** destination path, a `local` flag, and a chunk size in bytes. With `local` set to `true`, the download reads the blocks straight back out of this node's own repository. Like `uploadUrl` it runs in the background and completes with a `storageDownloadDone` event:

    ```sh
    logoscore call storage_module downloadToUrl "$(cat cid.txt)" "$(pwd)/logs-destination.txt" true 65536
    ```

    - The `local` flag reads only from locally cached data when set to `true`; `false` fetches from the network.

> 4.  Confirm the downloaded file is present at the destination path and matches the original. You can also check the content is in local storage by CID:

Reviewer: Dogfooding gotcha: the file uploaded here is `logs.txt`, which is the **running daemon's** live stdout — it keeps growing after the upload. So a literal `diff logs.txt logs-destination.txt` reports a difference even on a perfectly good round-trip: the download matches the *snapshot* taken at upload time (`manifests` reports its `datasetSize`), which is smaller than the now-larger live log. Worth clarifying so a reader doesn't think the round-trip failed; the `exists` check below is the reliable confirmation.

```suggestion
4.  Confirm the downloaded file is present at the destination path. (`logs.txt` is the running daemon's live log and keeps growing, so it is larger than the downloaded snapshot — compare against the `datasetSize` reported by `manifests`, not the live file.) You can also check the content is in local storage by CID:
```

Author: This is a good point, I think we need to change that. I will update the tutorial to create a specific file for it.

Author: Can you review [this commit](https://github.com/logos-co/logos-docs/pull/392/changes/899f946d1f3a3e5ad4a47ecea976f6bf226b131b) @weboko  ?

Reviewer: Reviewed — approved above. `899f946d` is the right call: publishing a dedicated static `hello.txt` instead of the live `logs.txt` removes the false-mismatch gotcha. I re-ran the full round-trip and `diff hello.txt hello-destination.txt` now comes back identical. 👍

    ```sh
    logoscore call storage_module exists "$(cat cid.txt)"
    # returns true
    ```

## Remove content and shut everything down

To clear your local storage, destroy the storage node, and stop the daemon, follow the steps below.

1.  Remove content from local storage by its CID. `remove` returns immediately; the outcome arrives as a `storageRemoveDone` event:

    ```sh
    logoscore call storage_module remove "$(cat cid.txt)"
    ```
2.  Confirm the content is gone:

    ```sh
    # Wait a second for the removal to complete first
    logoscore call storage_module exists "$(cat cid.txt)" | jq '.result.value'
    # false
    ```

> 3.  Stop the storage node. `stop` is asynchronous like `start`; a `storageStop` event follows in the log. The node can be started and stopped multiple times:

Reviewer: Same as line 82: the `storageStop` event is delivered to event subscribers, not written to the log.

```suggestion
3.  Stop the storage node. `stop` is asynchronous like `start`; completion is signalled by a `storageStop` event (delivered to event subscribers, not written to `logs.txt`). The node can be started and stopped multiple times:
```

    ```sh
    logoscore call storage_module uploadUrl "$(pwd)/hello.txt" 65536
    ```

    {% hint style="info" %}

    The default chunk size is 65536.

    {% endhint %}
3.  Extract the content ID (CID) from the first `manifests` entry:

    ```sh
    # Wait a second for the upload to complete first
    logoscore call storage_module manifests \
       | jq -er '.result.value[0].cid' > cid.txt
    ```
4.  Download the file back from local storage with `downloadToUrl`. It takes the CID, an **absolute** destination path, a `local` flag, and a chunk size in bytes. With `local` set to `true`, the download reads the blocks straight back out of this node's own repository. Like `uploadUrl` it runs in the background and completes with a `storageDownloadDone` event:

    ```sh
    logoscore call storage_module downloadToUrl "$(cat cid.txt)" "$(pwd)/hello-destination.txt" true 65536
    ```

    - The `local` flag reads only from locally cached data when set to `true`; `false` fetches from the network.

5.  Confirm the downloaded file is present at the destination path and matches the original. You can also check the content is in local storage by CID:

    ```sh

>     logoscore call storage_module exists "$(cat cid.txt)"
>     # returns true

Reviewer: Optional: now that the published file is a static `hello.txt`, step 5 can actually demonstrate "matches the original" with a real `diff` (this is the payoff of switching away from the live `logs.txt`). I ran exactly this and it comes back identical:

```suggestion
    # Confirm the download is a byte-for-byte copy of the original (both files are static):
    diff "$(pwd)/hello.txt" "$(pwd)/hello-destination.txt" && echo "match"
    # And confirm the content is in local storage by CID:
    logoscore call storage_module exists "$(cat cid.txt)"
    # returns true
```

    logoscore -D -m ./modules > logs.txt 2>&1 &
    ```

    - The client subcommands below connect to this running process via the config written under `~/.logoscore/`.

1.  Verify the daemon is running:

    ```sh
    logoscore status
    ```

1.  Confirm the storage module was discovered:

    ```sh
    logoscore list-modules
    # storage_module appears in the list
    ```

1.  Load the storage module and confirm it reports `loaded`:

    ```sh
    logoscore load-module storage_module
    logoscore status
    # storage_module now shows "status":"loaded"
    ```

    - To see every method the module exposes (the same methods you can `call`), run `logoscore module-info storage_module`.

1.  Create the storage config. Use **absolute** paths: in daemon mode the module runs as its own process, whose working directory is not the one you are typing in, so relative paths resolve to the wrong place. The `$(pwd)` in the heredoc takes care of it:

    ```sh
    mkdir -p "$(pwd)/storage-data"
    cat > config.json <<EOF
    {
      "data-dir": "$(pwd)/storage-data",
      "log-level": "DEBUG",
      "log-file": "$(pwd)/storage-data/storage.log",
      "nat": "none"
    }
    EOF
    ```

>     - With `"nat": "none"` the node announces the machine's own IP as-is: it can download from the network but is not reachable from the internet from behind a router. To make it reachable, use `"nat": "upnp"` or `"nat": "extip:<your-public-IP>"` with the ports forwarded: see [Connectivity](../concepts/connectivity.md).

Reviewer 2: In hindsight, this is a bit nasty cause it potentially causes users to pollute the DHT with private addresses. :-) But OK after 2.1.0 this should be solved.

Author: Yes this should be addresses in the next version
